Now, when Buddhism came to Tibet at Central, beginning to come, all boring of the Buddhism in Tibet
,
that time, of course, those great three Masters or three great beings come together as gold,
kind of like joint together, and bought entirely Buddhism in Tibet.
And "entire" means every teaching, from Hinayana or Theravada teaching all the way to the Vedayana
teaching.
The Vedayana teaching, everything, really, they both have everything.
So, at the very beginning, then, the great Master Shinda Bhakta and Gurukva Masambhava
selected the very five important texts, texts that can be practiced by the King Trisong Deutsen
as the personal practices. And later, they also added another five, and all together,
10 personal practices or sokar practices of the King Trisong Deutsen.
That means it's not just only the King, but everyone, at that time, they've been practicing.
So, now, this teaching, Heart Sutra teaching, is as the definitive meaning of the teaching,
as Second Training Wheel of Dharma. Second Training Wheel of Dharma, as there is six big teachings,
and eleven small teachings or condensed teaching, all together,
seventeen different teachings of the Mother and the Children, all together.
That's the time, during the time, that this period, that century period,
that century period, but they're oscillated, or the eighth century and the ninth century,
beginning of the ninth century. So, not these things.
Those are all listed in the book that the greatest master's kingdom would be,
and I had the opportunity to also be with him in a book known as
"The Sisyllas Echoes of Greater Silence." All those are listed, so I won't go on that.
Among that, eleven children's of the teachings of the Paniyapara Mother, Heart Sutra, is one.
One of their teachings. Now, our listed, generally, in the Nyingma teaching,
always studying and practicing together.
We are practicing, but at the same time, we are deepening our understanding,
knowledge about the Buddhist teachings.
So, I will list those five, and then, again, the other five, ten children.
The fourth part is the Heart Sutra, which is the Sutra of the willing.
So, that's the first one, the Sutra, that is the personal practice,
the personal practice, the personal practice, and then everyone's.
So, first is Heart Sutra, or Sutra of the willing.
And then, second is Daka Yishi.
I think Daka Yishi, we translated it one time.
It's what's called the wisdom of the moment of death.
That Daka Yishi is the Sutra of the meditation, Sutra of the meditation.
So, now, we meditate.
Then, next one is the three hips of the thirty-five Buddha practices.
Three hips, or last we were talking about that, and I think whenever you had that.
But this is a little bit, he said, Bodhisattva is a purification,
Sutra of the, Sutra of purifications.
So, Bodhisattva is purification, purification, which is Sutra of the purifications.
So, that makes thirty-three.
And, fourth one is, then, Sutra of the, oh, sorry, no Sutra.
King of old aspirations, king of old aspirations, Sutra of the aspirations,
Sutra of aspirations, all the dedication and aspirations.
And it's a very famous phrase, I think it's translated, I saw some things,
even though we don't have that, but it's very famous.
Then, next one is, then, Vaidyara vidaya, Vaidyara vichanda,
or vidaya, Sutra of the cleansing, Sutra of the cleansing.
This is Durya Namgyu, and it's better, Durya Namgyu, which is, again,
very famous Sutra of purification, cleansing, ceremonies, monies.
So, those are the five first parts in the practice of the king.
And the second parts are, first one is white umbrella practices,
that which is Sutra of the protections.
White umbrella, what we practice this day, is a condensate ones.
But this is Sutra, directly teaching of the Buddha,
the Buddha, which is not that long, but is let alone long.
And so, that is Sutras.
Next one is the Amitayu Sutra, the Sutra that brings longevity and good health.
So, that's Amitayu, Amitayu Sutras.
And the next one is the Masudarani Norjima, I think many of you know Norjima.
Norjima Sutra, which is Sutra of wealth.
That is third.
And then, the one syllable, one syllable,
Pandya Paramata teaching, which is Sutra of the essence.
Essence.
And then, Sutra of the blue jakkari, which is Sutra of the, again,
protection and cleansings.
And Sutra of the blue jakkari is the Vaidya Pandya Sutra, Sutra of the teachings.
So, those are all known as ten personal practices of the characters of the ages.
So, among that ten, this is the first one.
And this teaching, in a sense, is so important, so special and so ponderous,
that when the great master, in terms of the people invited,
in the great master Bhumal Matara, he records, "Please, will you write commentaries on these
teachings?"
And Bhumal Matara, the great joki master Bhumal Matara wrote,
commentaries on these Heart Sutras teachings.
That is considered the first commentary teaching,
the Lord on Heart Sutras, in Tibet.
There is, then later on, the great master Lord commentaries.
But then, later on, at the end of the tenth century, or end of the eleventh century,
and the beginning of the twelfth century,
there is a very famous master with great scholars, R. Satchamishi, R. Satchamishi.
And he wrote, then, Kannada Kondran said,
"Teaching, commentaries on these Heart Sutras,
exactly what Bhumal Matara wrote, commentaries."
He called with that, and he wrote commentaries.
So that is really his story of these teachings.
Now we go to the Heart Sutras.
Heart Sutras, I'm sure you have the text.
"Please, you open the Bhumal Matara."
We're trying to go a little bit in an old-by-old,
even though maybe we can do all the way,
all the way, but we do.